README.md, before:

# potree-CHtemplate

An updated template for Potree pages based on [Vizcaya Museum](https://github.com/VizcayaMuseum/Kiosk) project and inspired by [potree-sfm](https://github.com/hokiespurs/potree-sfm) project features.

A working example can be found on the [LabMGF DICA PoliMi website](https://labmgf.dica.polimi.it/pujob/potree-template/).

![ Home page of the Potree based platform](./screenshots/home.png "Homepage of the Potree based platform of the Farnese Castel in Piacenza (Italy)")

Information about how the project was developed, including details on the survey campaign and on web platform implementation, can be found on the official documentation website.

[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/potree-chtemplate/badge/?version=latest)](https://potree-chtemplate.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

![3D Reconstruction of the construction phases](./screenshots/arsenalephases.gif "3D Reconstruction of the construction phases")

More details on this project on the following publication:

Gaspari, F., Ioli, F., Barbieri, F., Rivieri, C., Dondi, M., and Pinto, L.: **REDISCOVERING CULTURAL HERITAGE SITES BY INTERACTIVE 3D EXPLORATION: A PRACTICAL REVIEW OF OPEN-SOURCE WEBGL TOOLS**, *Int. Arch. Photogramm. Remote Sens. Spatial Inf. Sci.*, XLVIII-M-2-2023, 661–668, https://doi.org/10.5194/isprs-archives-XLVIII-M-2-2023-661-2023, 2023

## **Table of content** 📋

- [How to install and run](#how-to-install-and-run-⚙)
- [Features](#features-💡)
- [License](#license)
- [Performance](#performance-💻)
- [Credits](#credits-👥)
- [How to contribute](#how-to-contribute-❓)
- [Examples](#examples)

## **How to install and run** ⚙

Make sure you have the following installed and working in order to reproduce the project. You can view detailed installation guidelines within the following links:
* [Xampp / Apache server](https://www.apachefriends.org/index.html)
* [Github to clone project](https://git-scm.com/downloads)

[⚠ UNDER CONSTRUCTION]

## **Features** 💡
- Fullscreen HTML5 API
- Bootstrap integration
- Simplified navigation
- Accessible
- Informational overlays
- Slowed annotation camera rotations
- Animations from annotations
- Oriented images on the model

## **License**

For continuity sake, this project carries the same license as the original Potree project. More information can be found in the [LICENSE](https://github.com/Tars4815/potree-chtemplate/blob/main/LICENSE) file.

## **Performance** 💻
Examples work best and with Google Chrome and Firefox.

## **Credits** 👥

The project has been originally developed by **LAB2R** (Laboratory of Survey and Representation) and LabMGF (Geodetic and Photogrammetric Laboratory) coordinated by Professor [Livio Pinto](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Livio-Pinto) at Politecnico di Milano - Piacenza campus.

The in situ survey was part of the laboratories for the [**RELIEF TECHNIQUE AND 3D MODELING FOR THE ARCHITECTURE**](https://www11.ceda.polimi.it/schedaincarico/schedaincarico/controller/scheda_pubblica/SchedaPublic.do?&evn_default=evento&c_classe=735710&polij_device_category=DESKTOP&__pj0=0&__pj1=93e89e7f2db93a52f4de53beb4e38ea2) course from the Bachelor of Science Degree in Architectural Design. Drone surveys and laser scanner acquisitions were conducted and pre-processed by [Federico Barbieri](https://www.linkedin.com/in/federico-barbieri-8006a0228/) and [Francesco Ioli](https://www.linkedin.com/in/francesco-ioli-640061160/)

The collected data were first processed within the research thesis project entitled *Riscoprire il gigante sommerso - Rilievo, indagine storica e ricostruzione digitale del Castello di Pierluigi Farnese by Michele Dondi and Clara Rivieri.* by Michele Dondi and Clara Rivieri.

The digital twin platform implementation was carried by [Federica Gaspari](https://www.linkedin.com/in/federicagaspari/).

## **How to contribute** ❓

[⚠ UNDER CONSTRUCTION]

## **Examples**

* [**Castello Farnese**](https://labmgf.dica.polimi.it/pujob/potree-template/) in Piacenza (Italy)
* [**Belvedere Glacier**](https://labmgf.dica.polimi.it/pujob/belvedere/) in Macugnaga (Italy)

## **Acknowledgements** 

The project team thanks **Marcello Spigaroli** and **Ente Farnese** for the stimulating and exciting study opportunity and for the support on the historical investigation on the site. Moreover, we would like to acknowledge the collaboration demonstrated by the **Military Arsenal of Piacenza** and the **Historical Archives of Parma** in facilitating the research in the archives and libraries.

Commit message:

Updated to last demo version
- Included references and contributing guidelines in README
- Added js script for loading historical reconstructed meshes
- Updated docs

README.md, after:

# potree-CHtemplate

An updated template for Potree pages based on [Vizcaya Museum](https://github.com/VizcayaMuseum/Kiosk) project and inspired by [potree-sfm](https://github.com/hokiespurs/potree-sfm) project features.

A working example can be found on the [LabMGF DICA PoliMi website](https://labmgf.dica.polimi.it/pujob/potree-template/).

![ Home page of the Potree based platform](./screenshots/home.png "Homepage of the Potree based platform of the Farnese Castel in Piacenza (Italy)")

Information about how the project was developed, including details on the survey campaign and on web platform implementation, can be found on the official documentation website.

[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/potree-chtemplate/badge/?version=latest)](https://potree-chtemplate.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

![3D Reconstruction of the construction phases](./screenshots/arsenalephases.gif "3D Reconstruction of the construction phases")

More details on this project on the following publication:

Gaspari, F., Ioli, F., Barbieri, F., Rivieri, C., Dondi, M., and Pinto, L.: **REDISCOVERING CULTURAL HERITAGE SITES BY INTERACTIVE 3D EXPLORATION: A PRACTICAL REVIEW OF OPEN-SOURCE WEBGL TOOLS**, *Int. Arch. Photogramm. Remote Sens. Spatial Inf. Sci.*, XLVIII-M-2-2023, 661–668, https://doi.org/10.5194/isprs-archives-XLVIII-M-2-2023-661-2023, 2023

## **Table of content** 📋

- [How to install and run](#how-to-install-and-run-⚙)
- [Features](#features-💡)
- [License](#license)
- [Performance](#performance-💻)
- [Credits](#credits-👥)
- [How to contribute](#how-to-contribute-❓)
- [Examples](#examples)
- [References](#references)

## **How to install and run** ⚙

Make sure you have the following installed and working in order to reproduce the project. You can view detailed installation guidelines within the following links:
* [Xampp / Apache server](https://www.apachefriends.org/index.html)
* [Github to clone project](https://git-scm.com/downloads)

[⚠ UNDER CONSTRUCTION]

## **Features** 💡
- Fullscreen HTML5 API
- Bootstrap integration
- Simplified navigation
- Accessible
- Informational overlays
- Slowed annotation camera rotations
- Animations from annotations
- Oriented images on the model

## **License**

For continuity sake, this project carries the same license as the original Potree project. More information can be found in the [LICENSE](https://github.com/Tars4815/potree-chtemplate/blob/main/LICENSE) file.

## **Performance** 💻
Examples work best and with Google Chrome and Firefox.

## **Credits** 👥

The project has been originally developed by **LAB2R** (Laboratory of Survey and Representation) and LabMGF (Geodetic and Photogrammetric Laboratory) coordinated by Professor [Livio Pinto](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Livio-Pinto) at Politecnico di Milano - Piacenza campus.

The in situ survey was part of the laboratories for the [**RELIEF TECHNIQUE AND 3D MODELING FOR THE ARCHITECTURE**](https://www11.ceda.polimi.it/schedaincarico/schedaincarico/controller/scheda_pubblica/SchedaPublic.do?&evn_default=evento&c_classe=735710&polij_device_category=DESKTOP&__pj0=0&__pj1=93e89e7f2db93a52f4de53beb4e38ea2) course from the Bachelor of Science Degree in Architectural Design. Drone surveys and laser scanner acquisitions were conducted and pre-processed by [Federico Barbieri](https://www.linkedin.com/in/federico-barbieri-8006a0228/) and [Francesco Ioli](https://www.linkedin.com/in/francesco-ioli-640061160/)

The collected data were first processed within the research thesis project entitled *Riscoprire il gigante sommerso - Rilievo, indagine storica e ricostruzione digitale del Castello di Pierluigi Farnese by Michele Dondi and Clara Rivieri.* by Michele Dondi and Clara Rivieri.

The digital twin platform implementation was carried by [Federica Gaspari](https://www.linkedin.com/in/federicagaspari/).

## **How to contribute** ❓

if you are willing to contribute or test the template for several applications and report a bug or suggest new features:
1. Fork this repository
2. Clone your fork
3. Create a new branch
4. Make desired changes to the code and commit them
5. Push changes to your GitHub repository
6. Open a pull request


## **Examples**

* [**Castello Farnese**](https://labmgf.dica.polimi.it/pujob/potree-template/) in Piacenza (Italy)
* [**Belvedere Glacier**](https://labmgf.dica.polimi.it/pujob/belvedere/) in Macugnaga (Italy)

## **Acknowledgements** 

The project team thanks **Marcello Spigaroli** and **Ente Farnese** for the stimulating and exciting study opportunity and for the support on the historical investigation on the site. Moreover, we would like to acknowledge the collaboration demonstrated by the **Military Arsenal of Piacenza** and the **Historical Archives of Parma** in facilitating the research in the archives and libraries.

## References

### Publications

* Gaspari, F., Ioli, F., Barbieri, F., Rivieri, C., Dondi, M., and Pinto, L.: Rediscoverinng cultural heritage sites by interactive 3D exploration: a practical review of open-source WebGL tools, *Int. Arch. Photogramm. Remote Sens. Spatial Inf. Sci.*, XLVIII-M-2-2023, 661–668, https://doi.org/10.5194/isprs-archives-XLVIII-M-2-2023-661-2023, 2023

### Presentations

* **CIPA 2023 Firenze** (28.06.2023) - *Rediscoverinng cultural heritage sites by interactive 3D exploration: a practical review of open-source WebGL tools by Federica Gaspari* ([SLIDES](https://app.cipa2023florence.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/03_GIS-WEBGIS-SHARING-INFORMATION-AND-3D-DATA-2_Gaspari.pptx.pdf))
